#summary Robot Framework plugin for Hudson CI system
#labels Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="2"/>

=Introduction=

Hudson Plugin provides a way to integrate Robot Framework test reports into the [http://hudson-ci.org/ Hudson Continuous Integration server].

The plugin is still a prototype and under development, but feel free to check it out and use it if interested. 

=Downloading=

Currently the plugin code must be checked out from the [http://code.google.com/p/robotframework-javatools/source/browse/ version control]. Downloadable releases will created in the future when the plugin gets more mature.

=Building=

The plugin is built using [http://maven.apache.org/ Maven] with the command:
{{{
mvn package
}}}

This will build a plugin installation package `robotframework.hpi` into the project's target directory.

=Installation=

The plugin is installed like any other Hudson plugin via Hudson's web interface. Go to management screen and click `Manage Plugins`. Then upload the `robotframework.hpi` package and enable the plugin.

For more information, consult Hudson documentation at http://wiki.hudson-ci.org/display/HUDSON/Plugins.

=Configuration=

When Hudson is up and running, the installed plugin can be enabled in the job's configuration page by checking the Robot Framework checkbox and optionally specifying the relative path to the Robot Framework reports directory relative to the project/workspace directory.

=Reports=

The plugin adds links to the generated Robot Framework reports into Hudson's left side tool panel. On the top level the link points to the latest report and on build level they point to the build specific version.