== Jvmconnector 1.0 ==

This release introduces the new RemoteApplications library, which replaces the olde ApplicationLauncher library. The RemoteApplications library works only on Java 1.5 or higher. Release contains also fix for issue 35, hiding the 3rd party dependencies to avoid collision with SUT dependencies.

Version 1.0 was released on Tuesday, 16th of February, 2010 

|| *ID* || *Type* || *Priority* || *Summary* ||
|| Issue 30 || Enhancement || Critical || RemoteApplications library to handle multiple remote applications  ||
|| Issue 35 || Defect || High || Repackage 3rd party libraries to avoid collisions with SUT libraries ||
|| Issue 31 || Enhancement || High || Handle keywords with same name in multiple libraries taken into use in one application at RemoteApplications library ||
|| Issue 27 || Enhancement || Medium || Support for remotely running JVMs to RemoteApplications ||
|| Issue 32 || Enhancement || Medium || Possibility to connect once started application from multiple test runs  ||

Altogether 5 issues.

== Jvmconnector 0.9.1 ==

This release introdues on new feature: a [ApplicationLauncher#Robot_Agent JVM startup hook] to enable testing of applications that are not started with !ApplicationLauncher. This feature works only on Java 1.5 or higher.


|| *ID* || *Type* || *Priority* || *Summary* ||
|| Issue 24  || Enhancement  || Medium  || ApplicationLauncher can connect to applications started externally ||

== Jvmconnector 0.9 ==

Support for Java Web Start applications has been added.
Contrary to old WebstartLauncher, it is no longer needed to edit xml files for
configuring the Robot Framework libraries and rmi services.
The old WebstartLauncher has been removed and the new ApplicationLauncher
should be used instead.


|| *ID* || *Type* || *Priority* || *Summary* ||
|| Issue 20 || Enhancement || Medium ||  ApplicationLauncher should support java webstart applications   ||
|| Issue 21 || Enhancement || Medium ||  Extraxt WebstartLauncher's "Create Rmi Enhanced Jnlp" to it's own library ||
|| Issue 22 || Enhancement || Medium ||  Remove old WebstartLauncher ||

== Jvmconnector 0.8 ==

In WebstartLauncher we added one new keyword and fixed one bug.<br>
Jvmconnector dependent library ApplicationLauncher is introduced.

|| *ID* || *Type* || *Priority* || *Summary* ||
|| Issue 14 || Enhancement || Medium || Create a keyword that only fetches the jnlp and enhances it with the RMI service ||
|| Issue 17 || Defect || Medium || !WebstartLauncher should work even if jars have main attribute set to "true" ||
|| Issue 18 || Enhancement || Medium || !ApplicationLauncher library ||

== Jvmconnector 0.7.3 ==

This release contains a small fix that enables the usage of !WebstartLauncher with https. Please see [WebstartLauncher#Troubleshooting WebstartLauncher] for more details.

|| *ID* || *Type* || *Priority* || *Summary* ||
|| Issue 11 || Defect || High || !WebstartLauncher should work with https ||

== Jvmconnector 0.7.2 ==

This release makes [JvmConnector#WebstartLauncher  WebstartLauncher] usable on MS Windows and with JRE 1.4.

|| *ID* || *Type* || *Priority* || *Summary* ||
|| Issue 12 || Defect || High || !WebstartLauncher should handle MS Windows paths ||
|| Issue 13 || Defect || High || !WebstartLauncher should work with JRE 1.4 ||

== Jvmconnector 0.7.1 ==
This is an emergency release fixing a bug that prevented using !WebstartLauncher with proxy.

== Jvmconnector 0.7 ==
Added a new library !WebstartLauncher that helps with testing Java Webstart applications. See [JvmConnector#WebstartLauncher  WebstartLauncher] for details.

== Jvmconnector 0.6 ==

Extended Jvmconnector with [http://code.google.com/p/robotframework-javatools/source/browse/jvmconnector/trunk/tools/RemoteLibrary.py RemoteLibrary] which simplifies use of remotelibraries.
Support for using multiple libraries with Jvmconnector added.

See [http://code.google.com/p/robotframework-javatools/downloads/list multilibrary and java webstart demos] for details.

|| *ID* || *Type* || *Priority* || *Summary* ||
|| Issue 6 || Enhancement || Medium || Implement waiting for the server side connection to open ||
|| Issue 9 || Enhancement || High || !JvmConnector should support multiple libraries ||

== Jvmconnector 0.5 ==

This is the first open source release.

*Features:*
 * Connects robot to an application running in different JVM.
 * Redirects logging from the keywords back to robot.
 * Handles exceptions thrown on the remote system so that they are presented in a meaningful way in the robot logs.